---
title: S22 - Jam Session Recordings
permalink: /supplementary/22/
parent: Chapter 5 - GrooveTransformer
nav_order: 11
layout: supplement_page
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## System Demo

The following video shows the system in action. The interface shown here is slightly different from the one shared in this website.
However, the underlying system is the same. To download the latest plugin, please visit the [VST Plugins](/resources/source_code_and_vst_plugins/) page.

In this recording, we use a bassline arpeggio played, looped and fed into the system (bottom-right corner). In the meantime, 
a live performance on the synthesizer (top-right) is also fed into the system. The system generates the drums in real-time, which
are then synthesized using a drum synthesizer (left).

<video width="600" height="500" controls>
  <source src="/assets/ch56/video/VCV_VST_Keyboard_LowRes.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

<br>


Setup:

- An arpegiating bassline played back using an ableton stock plugin
- An Arturia Polybrute synthesizer played live. 
- `GrooveTransformer`receiving MIDI grooves from both the arpegiated basseline and the live performance on the synthesizer

Drum Synthesis:

- [Cardinal](https://github.com/DISTRHO/Cardinal) Virtual Eurorack Environment
- Cardinal receives the generated drums, strips the gats and velocities to trigger the modules
- Triggers used to activate voices while velocities are used either as VCA gains and/or synthesis parameters. 
- While 9 voices are generated, some voices were grouped together
- Typical Kick and Snare (with velocity controled VCAs) were used for kick and snares
- A single FM Operator was used for all hats (closed and open). The decay of the envelop was controlled by the type of trigger
- For Rides and Toms, two separate Mutable Instrument Plait modules were used.


---

## Audio Recordings (Long Jam Sessions)



---

Live accompaniment generated based on a live synth performance. Drums synthesized using Microtonic layered with Acoustic drums

<audio width="600" height="200" controls>
  <source src="/assets/ch56/audio/2_Feb12_CardinalAndAcousticDrumsLayered_Polybrute.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</audio>




---

Here we play a sequence of chords (MIDI) and also play the synthesizer live. The drum accompaniments are generated using a modular patch and near the end using acoustic drums as well.
 

<audio width="600" height="200" controls>
  <source src="/assets/ch56/audio/1_Feb12_CardinalVCV_Polybrute.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</audio>


---

Similar to above, however, the generations were played back on a virtual acoustic drum kit.

<audio width="600" height="200" controls>
  <source src="/assets/ch56/audio/3_Feb8_Acoustic Drums_Polybrute.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</audio>


---

In this one, we have programmed 4 sequences on the Electron Analog Four synth which are enabled/disabled during the performance. These sequences drive the accompaniment engine while we perform live on a separate synth as well. At times, we don't feed the groove of the live performance to the system so that the groove is stable and more conditioned on the programmed sequences

<audio width="600" height="200" controls>
  <source src="/assets/ch56/audio/4_Feb2_A4SequencesAndPolybruteAcousticDrums.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</audio>

---

These jams were done entirely in Ableton. However, we live looped many parallel midi sequences and also played live patterns that were fed to the accompaniment generator. All drums were synthesized using an acoustic drum kit

<audio width="600" height="200" controls>
  <source src="/assets/ch56/audio/5_Jan12_MultipleSequencesLoopedAbletonPush2.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</audio>

<br>

<audio width="600" height="200" controls>
  <source src="/assets/ch56/audio/6_Jan17_SameSetupAs5.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</audio>